doc/src/first_pull_request.rst, before:

=====================================
How to Submit Your First Pull Request
=====================================

The following is a very simple primer on Github and Git whose objective is 
to show you how to effortlessly download Hermes and eventually contribute 
to the project by creating an interesting example, fixing a bug, improving 
documentation, etc. We begin with creating a free account at Github, fork
the Hermes git repository, clone your Github copy to your local computer,
and continue through setting up the .gitconfig file, creating a new branch, 
committing changes, pushing them to your Github repository, and generating
a pull request. Some good references for further reading are given after 
that.

Create a Free Github Account
-----------------------------

Go to the `Github home page <http://github.com>`_. Click on "Plans, Pricing and Signup"
and then on "Create a free account". You'll be asked to enter your username, email,
and a password. That's it, it does not take much time, and it is free for open source 
projects. 

Fork the Hermes Git Repository
------------------------------

Enter your account using the "Login" link in the upper right corner. Type 
"hpfem" into the search line in the upper right corner and hit enter. You 
will see a list of several repositories and one of them will be "hpfem / hermes".
Click on it and this will bring you to the `Hermes page at Github <http://github.com/hpfem/hermes>`_. 
Click on the "Fork" button in the upper part of the page. This will create a copy 
of the Hermes repository in your Github account, establish important links to 
the master Hermes repository, and add you to the Hermes network. 

Generate and Register Your Public SSH Key
-----------------------------------------

Start by generating the public ssh key typing (on Linux):

    ssh-keygen

You will be asked to enter a file for the key to be stored, and 
a passphrase. The passphrase may be left empty. After the file with 
the key is generated, open it in some text editor. Then return to your 
Github page, click on "Account Settings", and on "SSH Public Keys".
This is where you need to paste the public key that you just generated 
on your computer. 

Download Hermes to Your Local Computer
--------------------------------------

Once your public SSH key is registered at Github, you can 
clone the Hermes repository from your Github account to
your local computer. This is done by typing::

    git clone git@github.com:your_name/hermes.git

Now you can build Hermes as described in the Installation 
section above. 

In the next paragraphs we describe how to work inside  
the Hermes Git repository on your local computer.

Create the .gitconfig File
--------------------------

The .gitconfig file can be used to define your identity
for git as well as useful abbreviations. Change dir to your 
home directory. Then adjust and save the following as 
"~/.gitconfig":

::

    [user]
	    name = Pavel Solin
	    email = solin.pavel@gmail.com

    [core]
	    editor = vim

    [color]
	    ui = true
    [color "branch"]
	    current = yellow reverse
	    local = yellow
	    remote = green
    [color "diff"]
	    meta = yellow bold
	    frag = magenta bold
	    old = red bold
	    new = green bold
	    whitespace = red reverse
    [color "status"]
	    added = yellow
	    changed = green
	    untracked = cyan
    [core]
	    whitespace=fix,-indent-with-non-tab,trailing-space,cr-at-eol

    [alias]
	    st = status
	    ci = commit
	    br = branch
	    co = checkout
	    df = diff
	    lg = log -p

Create a Local Branch
---------------------

Change dir back to hermes/hermes1d/, hermes/hermes2d/ or hermes/hermes3d/
where you were before. Whenever you want to do any changes, such as modify 
an existing example or create a new one, always create a local branch -
do not work in the master branch.

You can get an overview of existing branches by typing::

    git branch 

This will show you something like this:

  .. image:: hermes2d/img/intro/terminal-git.png
   :align: center
   :width: 600
   :alt: Terminal screenshot

If this is your first time, then you will see
just the master branch with the star next to it,
which tells you that there are no other branches.

A new branch is created by typing::

    git co -b test-1

where test-1 is the name of your new local branch. Now you 
can do any changes you like and you do not have to be afraid
of damaging your master branch. HOWEVER, you always must 
commit your changes as described below. 
Unless you commit your changes, Git does not 
know that they belong to your local branch. This may cause
conflicts, you may not be able to update your local repository,  
you may not be able to switch branches at all, etc.

Commit Your Changes
-------------------

Say that you modified an existing or added a new 
file "file.cpp". In order to register the new changes,
type::

    git add file.cpp

You can do this with as many files as you like. Use the 
command::

    git diff

to see whether you have unregistered changes. If all
your changes are registered, the command will print 
nothing. 

After all your changes are registered, type::

    git commit

This will invoke a basic text editor 
where you will be asked to enter a one-line comment
describing your changes. Without this line, 
your commit will not be accepted. 

Push the Changes to Your Github Account
---------------------------------------

You cannot push to the master repository 
of Hermes directly. The way to get your changes there
is to first push them to your Github fork and then send 
a pull request to the Hermes network. To push your 
changes, type::

    git push git@github.com:your_name/hermes.git

Now you can go back to your Github account, click on 
"Commits" and you should see your changes there. 

Send a Pull Request
-------------------

In order to submit your changes to the Hermes network,
click on the button "Pull request" in the upper right 
part of your Github page. 
Describe the changes you did in the text window that 
appears. On the right you can see
a list of people who wil be notified about your changes. 
You can preview your pull request by clicking on 
"Preview" above the text window. The source and target 
branch are displayed above the text window and you can 
change them when you click on them. When you are ready,
click on "Send pull request".

Switching Branches
------------------

Before changing to a different branch in your 
local repository, type::

    git status

You will see something like this:

  .. image:: hermes2d/img/intro/terminal-git-2.png
   :align: center
   :width: 600
   :alt: Terminal screenshot

The green font tells you that git has the latest 
version of the file. All modified files in red 
need to be added using "git add". It is a good
idea to go through the untracked files too, in case
that you wish to add some of them as well. 
Related to the sample screenshot above, after 
typing::

    git add src/intro-2.rst
    git st

you will see

  .. image:: hermes2d/img/intro/terminal-git-3.png
   :align: center
   :width: 600
   :alt: Terminal screenshot

Now you can proceed with "git commit" as described above. 
After the commit, you can switch to a different branch.

Special Note on Sphinx Docs
---------------------------

The Sphinx documentation you are reading now is also 
part of the Hermes git repository and can be developed
in the same way as source files of Hermes. This very 
file can be found in doc/src/intro-2.rst. After 
making any changes to Sphinx docs, type::

    make html

in the doc/ directory. This will launch 
a build process that will take a few seconds. 
After it finishes, type::

    firefox _build/html

This will open a new tab in your Firefox where you will
see something like 

  .. image:: hermes2d/img/intro/firefox.png
   :align: center
   :width: 600
   :alt: Firefox screenshot

Click on the link "index.html" and you should see
the local form of your Sphinx docs that include your 
changes. 

Further Reading
---------------

Git and Github are very powerful tools and we covered just a tiny part 
of the story. After you familiarize yourself with the contents of
this simple primer, read more in `Pro Git <http://progit.org/book/>`_.

Also watch this `YouTube video <http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OFkgSjRnay4>`_
by Scott Chacon.

Good luck and let us know if you think that this document could be improved!

Commit message:

Edit pull request page in documentation

doc/src/first_pull_request.rst, after:

=====================================
How to Submit Your First Pull Request
=====================================

The following is a very simple primer on Github and Git whose objective is 
to show you how to effortlessly download Hermes and eventually contribute 
to the project by creating an interesting example, fixing a bug, improving 
documentation, etc. We begin with creating a free account at Github, fork
the Hermes git repository, clone your Github copy to your local computer,
and continue through setting up the .gitconfig file, creating a new branch, 
committing changes, pushing them to your Github repository, and generating
a pull request. Some good references for further reading are given after 
that.

Create a Free Github Account
-----------------------------

Go to the `Github home page <http://github.com>`_. Click on "Plans, Pricing and Signup"
and then on "Create a free account". You'll be asked to enter your username, email,
and a password. That's it, it does not take much time, and it is free for open source 
projects. 

Fork the Hermes Git Repository
------------------------------

Enter your account using the "Login" link in the upper right corner. Type 
"hpfem" into the search line in the upper right corner and hit enter. You 
will see a list of several repositories and one of them will be "hpfem / hermes".
Click on it and this will bring you to the `Hermes page at Github <http://github.com/hpfem/hermes>`_. 
Click on the "Fork" button in the upper part of the page. This will create a copy 
of the Hermes repository in your Github account, establish important links to 
the master Hermes repository, and add you to the Hermes network. 

Generate and Register Your Public SSH Key
-----------------------------------------

Start by generating the public ssh key typing (on Linux):

    ssh-keygen

You will be asked to enter a file for the key to be stored, and 
a passphrase. The passphrase may be left empty. After the file with 
the key is generated, open it in some text editor. Then return to your 
Github page, click on "Account Settings", and on "SSH Public Keys".
This is where you need to paste the public key that you just generated 
on your computer. 

Download Hermes to Your Local Computer
--------------------------------------

Once your public SSH key is registered at Github, you can 
clone the Hermes repository from your Github account to
your local computer. This is done by typing::

    git clone git@github.com:your_name/hermes.git

Now you can build Hermes as described in the Installation 
section above. 

In the next paragraphs we describe how to work inside  
the Hermes Git repository on your local computer.

Create the .gitconfig File
--------------------------

The .gitconfig file can be used to define your identity
for git as well as useful abbreviations. Change dir to your 
home directory. Then adjust and save the following as 
"~/.gitconfig":

::

    [user]
	    name = Pavel Solin
	    email = solin.pavel@gmail.com

    [core]
	    editor = vim

    [color]
	    ui = true
    [color "branch"]
	    current = yellow reverse
	    local = yellow
	    remote = green
    [color "diff"]
	    meta = yellow bold
	    frag = magenta bold
	    old = red bold
	    new = green bold
	    whitespace = red reverse
    [color "status"]
	    added = yellow
	    changed = green
	    untracked = cyan
    [core]
	    whitespace=fix,-indent-with-non-tab,trailing-space,cr-at-eol

    [alias]
	    st = status
	    ci = commit
	    br = branch
	    co = checkout
	    df = diff
	    lg = log -p

Create a Local Branch
---------------------

Change dir back to hermes/hermes1d/, hermes/hermes2d/ or hermes/hermes3d/
where you were before. Whenever you want to do any changes, such as modify 
an existing example or create a new one, always create a local branch -
do not work in the master branch.

You can get an overview of existing branches by typing::

    git branch 

This will show you something like this:

  .. image:: hermes2d/img/intro/terminal-git.png
   :align: center
   :width: 600
   :alt: Terminal screenshot

If this is your first time, then you will see
just the master branch with the star next to it,
which tells you that there are no other branches.

A new branch is created by typing::

    git co -b test-1

where test-1 is the name of your new local branch. Now you 
can do any changes you like and you do not have to be afraid
of damaging your master branch. HOWEVER, you always must 
commit your changes as described below. 
Unless you commit your changes, Git does not 
know that they belong to your local branch. This may cause
conflicts, you may not be able to update your local repository,  
you may not be able to switch branches at all, etc.

Commit Your Changes
-------------------

Say that you modified an existing or added a new 
file "file.cpp". In order to register the new changes,
type::

    git add file.cpp

You can do this with as many files as you like. Use the 
command::

    git diff

to see whether you have unregistered changes. If all
your changes are registered, the command will print 
nothing. 

After all your changes are registered, type::

    git commit

This will invoke a basic text editor 
where you will be asked to enter a one-line comment
describing your changes. Without this line, 
your commit will not be accepted. 

Push the Changes to Your Github Account
---------------------------------------

You cannot push to the master repository 
of Hermes directly. The way to get your changes there
is to first push them to your Github fork and then send 
a pull request to the Hermes network. To push your 
changes, type::

    git push git@github.com:your_name/hermes.git

Now you can go back to your Github account, click on 
"Commits" and you should see your changes there. 

Send a Pull Request
-------------------

In order to submit your changes to the Hermes network,
click on the button "Pull request" in the upper right 
part of your Github page. 
Describe the changes you did in the text window that 
appears. On the right you can see
a list of people who wil be notified about your changes. 
You can preview your pull request by clicking on 
"Preview" above the text window. The source and target 
branch are displayed above the text window and you can 
change them when you click on them. When you are ready,
click on "Send pull request".

For details on pull requests visit `this page <http://help.github.com/pull-requests/>`_.

Switching Branches
------------------

Before changing to a different branch in your 
local repository, type::

    git status

You will see something like this:

  .. image:: hermes2d/img/intro/terminal-git-2.png
   :align: center
   :width: 600
   :alt: Terminal screenshot

The green font tells you that git has the latest 
version of the file. All modified files in red 
need to be added using "git add". It is a good
idea to go through the untracked files too, in case
that you wish to add some of them as well. 
Related to the sample screenshot above, after 
typing::

    git add src/intro-2.rst
    git st

you will see

  .. image:: hermes2d/img/intro/terminal-git-3.png
   :align: center
   :width: 600
   :alt: Terminal screenshot

Now you can proceed with "git commit" as described above. 
After the commit, you can switch to a different branch by typing.::

    git co branch-name

Special Note on Sphinx Docs
---------------------------

The Sphinx documentation you are reading now is also 
part of the Hermes git repository and can be developed
in the same way as source files of Hermes. This very 
file can be found in doc/src/intro-2.rst. After 
making any changes to Sphinx docs, type::

    make html

in the doc/ directory. This will launch 
a build process that will take a few seconds. 
After it finishes, type::

    firefox _build/html

This will open a new tab in your Firefox where you will
see something like 

  .. image:: hermes2d/img/intro/firefox.png
   :align: center
   :width: 600
   :alt: Firefox screenshot

Click on the link "index.html" and you should see
the local form of your Sphinx docs that include your 
changes. 

Further Reading
---------------

Git and Github are very powerful tools and we covered just a tiny part 
of the story. After you familiarize yourself with the contents of
this simple primer, read more in `Pro Git <http://progit.org/book/>`_.

Also watch this `YouTube video <http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OFkgSjRnay4>`_
by Scott Chacon.

Good luck and let us know if you think that this document could be improved!
